# pandas-challenge
## Analysis

*School Report*
Upon my analysis of the school data, I have come to several conclusions: one, the amount of money spent per student has no bearing on their achievement levels. And two, the greatest determining factor in student achievement is the size of the school. I came to these conclusions because almost all of the district schools spend more money per student than the charter schools and the district schools have much lower overall passing rates than the charter schools. But at the same time every single one of the district schools are much larger. This leads me to conclude that the class sizes of the district schools are much larger than the charter schools and as a teacher for ten years, I know that the greatest determining factor to student success is class size. If the district schools were able to increase the number of teachers and therefore decrease the number of students per teacher they could have similar overall passing scores as the charter schools. 

Now my conclusions are based on key assumption, that the class sizes are larger at the district schools than they are at the charter schools. This assumption is based simply on the fact that the district schools have more students. One of the limitations of the data is the number teachers employed by each school so that I would be able to determine the number of students per teacher.  Another limitation of the data is does not show the number of special populations at each school. The special populations include: Special Education, English Language Learners, and Gifted and Talented. Each of these groups can have a great impact on the passing rates of the schools. If the charter schools are mainly comprised of Gifted and Talented then they will have higher scores because those students learn material much easier and faster than their peers. Whereas if the district schools have a high percentage of Special Education and English Language Learners then the scores will be lower. Through no fault of the students, the just have greater barriers to cross to learn and achieve the higher scores. 

What is interesting and not what I would expect to see after ten years of teaching is that the bottom performing schools all pass reading but they fail at math. This is interesting because, generally, what I have seen is that most students no matter their population do alright in math and are pass the standardized tests, but where they have the greatest struggle is in reading. This would be worth further research because if the reading or English teachers are able to get their students to perform well, then more research needs to go into what is going on math class for these students. 

